Like every programming language in Python, there is a data type that is different from the others.
And although it is perhaps the simplest of all, it is one of the most important booleans or boules.
A boolean element can only have two values true or false.
To declare a boolean, you simply write the name of a variable and assign it to the value.
True or false?
That's it.
You have a boolean.
You can also declare them indirectly if you assign a variable with a comparison either.
True, for example, the expression five is greater than four or false.
Five is less than four.
This is also a boolean because what Python does here is to check if your comparison is true or false.
The expressions that allow you to make comparisons are the symbols greater, less, greater, or equal,
less or equal, equal or different.
Whenever you construct a variable, use these operators, its result will be a boolean value.
True or false?
We have also seen that you can construct a boolean when you ask if a certain value is found inside a
structure such as a list or dictionary, or if it is not found.
So why do we say booleans are important while they're practically the basis of something exciting?
We'll see later, which is artificial intelligence.
Booleans are what will allow our programs to make logical decisions based on whether or not a condition
is met.
For example, true or false, such as is player one dead?
True.
So it's player two's turn.
Let's go to the code because this needs to be seen in action right now.
And let's go to the action and let's see how a Boolean looks directly in the code.
We're going to write a variable that is a variable one and we're going to put it directly.
We're going to declare it explicitly here that this one has a value of true.
We're going to create another one that has the opposite value, which is false.
These are the two values that are bowling admits.
Of course, this is in the open way to create them because as Phil told you, there are indirect ways
to generate booleans.
Well, let's see what it looks like once we run this, and that's the data of a boolean.
So let's do this for variable one and also let's print variable one itself so we can see its contents.
Let's go to run and again to run we choose the file booleans and here it tells us that the type of variable
one is bool.
That is to say that this is a boolean and that its value is true.
Remember, we did it here in the straight way.
Notice that it will always be a capital letter when you put a false or true.
But if I want it to be in lowercase, you're going to see what is going to happen and it's going to
give us an error.
It tells us that it has a name error.
The name true is not defined in the same error that we could get if they had a string without quotation
marks, because actually is what we did.
Python recognized with uppercase as a special word, but on lowercase it means nothing for Python.
And here pi is telling us, hey, I don't know this so true or false, it has to be capitalized.
So we're going to eliminate this and we're going to start by trying some of the things now.
We're going to create it indirectly.
We're going to create a variable called number that we're going to give a value of five is greater than
two plus three.
We're doing an addition here.
Here, I'm saying that five is greater than two plus three.
And as we know, this is not true because two plus three is equal to five.
So let's also print the type of number and also we're going to print the number itself.
So let's run it.
And it says that there is a bool, the type of variable number and its value is false because effectively
five is not greater than five, it is equal.
So as you see, even though we have not directly created the word false, we have created something
that is false.
A comparison that the code interprets.
It is false.
And here it gives us our result.
As I told you, there are many ways to make comparisons.
We have the greatest symbol.
The smallest symbol.
And let me show you this with two equal symbols, which stands for a comparison of equality.
Here, this would give me a true because five is equal to five.
In this case, two plus three.
And as you see here, so you don't get confused, there are two ways to use the equal symbol when you
use it alone.
Just one equal symbol.
What you're saying here is I want this to be equal to this.
You're doing an action.
You are changing things.
You're creating an equality.
We use one equal symbol, for example, to load values into variables.
But two equal symbols together are actually a comparison value.
It's like asking a question, is this equal to this?
And it's going to give you a true or false answer.
Please review in the introduction to this video where Phil mentioned all comparison options.
But if we put greater than or equal to, for example, we are giving both alternatives.
We want to ask if five is greater than two plus three, or if it is equal to two plus three and synthesis.
Since it is actually equal, we get true, even though we've included the possibility that is greater.
And we also have the possibility to see if they are different from the exclamation point and the equal
sign.
And since they're not different, they are equal.
It tells us the expression is false.
Well, there is also a chance to be much clearer.
We have directly created here any comparison, and this is given as true or false.
You can be much more explicit and create directly the ball function that in parenthesis asks us to put
an expression here.
Let's see, five is greater than six.
We're going to execute it and it's going to tell us that it is false.
If we put five is less than six, it's going to tell us that this is true.
It's the same as what we did just now.
You may be saying, well, we don't need to put bool, but I can explain it to you because we're going
to see it in the code and we're going to see how others sometimes include it.
When you're reviewing a code, you can find it.
And I want you to know that this is exactly the same as putting the expression directly.
And if you leave this empty, what you can have is a value of false, right?
This also when you want to generate a false value, you don't want to make an unnecessary comparison.
You put ball and already your variable is going to have the false value.
We've also seen throughout the course that you can ask Python if there is a certain value inside a string
or inside a dictionary, inside a list or inside any collectible.
Well, let's do that so we can see also how to construct a bowling value.
We're going to create a list directly.
Let's name it list.
And we're going to say that the list has values one, two, three and four.
And now we're going to create a variable called control.
And we're going to tell control to be equal to and to ask five if it is in the list.
And then we're going to print the type of control and we're going to print control itself and we're
going to run this.
And it gives us back control as a Boolean type value, even though what you have here is a question
and its value is false because five is not found in list.
If I had asked here if five is not in list, the result would have been true.
Well, this is the basics about booleans, and if you have any doubts, don't hesitate to ask in the
questions and Q&A area because booleans, as I told you, are the basis of the logical decisions that
our code will make later on.
So be sure to do the practical exercises that follow in the next step, and I'm looking forward to the
next lecture so we can move forward with this day that is nearing to its end.